ICICI LR Elevat vs Tata AIG
Medicare Premier Which Plan is Better Let
's Understand This in the Next 15
Minutes.
Mahavir [Sangeet] Chopra is the Founder and Chief
Executive Officer of Beshak Dot.
[Music]
Now starting with the USPE.  ICICI
Elevate when I was seeing the plan.  It comes out
to be like an all card plan.
Where you have the base features which is
basically the hospitalization cover and then you
add what you want to add into that plan.
Compare that to Tata Agi, it is like a thali where everything is
free package to pay a
premium.  Everything is decided by Tata
IG, how they want to package it, how they want to give it too.
Both plans work for
different people.  Tata IG Medic Premier
will work for people who don't want to make a
choice.  They just want the insurance company to
decide.  And ICI and Elovate is a plan
which can be used for people who basically
want to make their own plan.  Right?  Also it can be an
effort for people who don't want to do those kinds
of things.  Right?  So
quickly let's start with the USP of
ICICI Lamb Elevate.  The biggest feature of
ICICI Elevate is that it gives you unlimited
sum insured options.  Like for example,
Tata IG gives you a sum insured option
up to Rs 3 crore.  In case of ICICI Lomb Allet,
it gives you Rs 3 crore, and then the option of
unlimited sum insured.  Which is something that is
, ah becoming a new feature with a lot
of new plans.  Ah, the next feature that
is a USP in ICICI Lamb Elevate is called the
Infinite Care add on.  Now whatever
features I'm going to to to to to tell you about
ICI Lum are going to to to to to to be
add on like already said it's a complete
product where everything needs to be
added in the product.  So
Infinite Care is the next add-on I'm
going to talk about.  Infinite Care is an
add-on which gives you unlimited sum
insured as a one-time lifetime option.
So for example, if you have taken sum insured of Rs
10 lakh, Rs 15 lakh, Rs 20 lakh but you are not sure if that
sum insured is going to be enough.
You feel that there could be one
hospitalization in your lifetime or your
family's lifetime when the sum insured could be inadequate
and you may need higher sum
insured. Like in life, sometimes
you must have seen people in families getting cancer
or some such major disease
where a higher sum insured is required. What does this add-on do for
you? In this add-on, basically
you get unlimited sum insured once in your lifetime.
You can claim any amount, you
can claim 10 crores or even 15 crores. This is the add-on, of course, you have to pay
extra premium for this. The
next add-on of ICICI Lambar is
compared to Tata's, so it is called the
World Wide Cover add-on. You must have
understood from the World Wide Cover add-on that
basically all the health
insurance plans in India give you
a cover for hospitalization in India, but if you
take this add-on, then you are also covered
for hospitalization outside India. Right,
what does it give?  What I am going to read out
quickly for you is there is an
option for both emergency plus plan treatments. There are
many plans which
provide only emergency, that is, if you are travelling and you feel like it,
you can use it.
Many plans do not provide emergency.
You have to provide both emergency and
plan treatments. There is a waiting period of two years. It is
important to know that
whenever you take this plan and you take this add-on, you will
basically have to wait for 2
years and then only be able to use this
specific cover.  Now it is a separate cover
that is available and the sum insured that is
available is up to Rs 3 crore.  What
are the conditions in this?  One is that you can only
go cashless.  This may sound good
but there is a downside to it that if you go
to a hospital that is not part of the network then
you will not be able to get the treatment done
with basically the insurance.  You will have to
pay from your pocket.  And you
cannot come and claim the demotes again.  So if you are
out somewhere and you find a hospital
where basically treatment is
not available, then
cashless facility is not available there, then you may face some issue.
I have already told you about the waiting period of two years.
In case of emergency, every trip that
you undertake should be less than 45 days and
all the trips for the entire year should be less than
90 days. The
approximate premium is also ₹3000,
you have to pay here if you are 30 years old and
living in Mumbai. Compare this to Tata
IG Medicare. There is no add-on in this. This is a
part of the plan. I already said that
Tata IG offers your pre-package product.
It is a part of the plan. It does not cover
emergency treatments, but it covers all
kinds of
plan treatments. If you ever
need to undergo surgery in India and
you have to go abroad, then it will be covered.  it it it it it it it it is
not a
separate cover.  It is a part of the coverage.  So
if you are taking a cover of Rs 50 lakh then it is a
part of the cover.  Not a separate cover.
You are taking add on in ICICI number.  There is a separate cover.
Condition only reimbursement.  Pay here
is only cashless.  There is only reimbursement here.
Meaning, if you are going out to get
treatment anywhere, you have to pay first
and then you can reimburse.   This
also has its benefits.  The advantage of this is that
basically you are outside.  You
can get treatment in any hospital.  Ah cashless
is available but here it is mentioned on case to case
basis.  So you assume that it is not
cashless.  Right?  Now we move to maternity
cover.  What is basically a maternity cover?   Let me
tell you.  Ah in case of ICICI
along but is add alt.  Right?  Like I
Already Said covers delivery and pre and
post hospital post natal expenses.
Covers all expenses.  Not Only
Delivery.  There is a waiting period of two years.
You can cover it from the third year.  10% off
SI and sum insured of Rs 1 lakh.  So
for maternity the maximum that you can use
is 10% of the sum insured and ₹1 lakh.   The
premium is very high.  Meaning, the one who is 30 years old.
Few people are looking at premium here.
So its premium is ₹45,000.  It
is very expensive. If you are
going to take maternity along with ICICI LB Elevat then the premium will go
up a lot.
Maternity is an inbuilt right in Tata AIG, it will cover
only delivery expenses, it will not cover
pre and post natal.  There is a waiting period of three years.
There is a waiting period of two years to pay
and the cover limits depend
on your sum insured.  So the limit ranges from Rs 500 to Rs 1 lakh depending
on the sum insured that you
choose.  Ok?  The next add-on is the
New Born Baby Cover for ICICI Albert.
Basically, in this add-on,
if the maternity expenses of any baby born to you are
covered, then this one will also be covered.
Baby will also be covered for 90 days.  You will get 2x cover of 2x of the maternity
sum insured.
Now Tata AIG basically does
not have baby cover but has complication cover.
Delivery complications are covered.  Nowadays, we often
hear that if there are any complications during delivery,
they are covered.
In this, basically the
baby is covered in all the complications.  So new born baby
expenses are covered.  If the complication
is directly related to delivery, the
maternity claim is also approved.
How much is the cover?  ₹10,000 to ₹25,000 depending
on your submission.  Moving on
OPD.  OPD is becoming a very popular
thing that people want.  People want that
along with hospitalization, medical tests for your everyday
ailments like cold,
cough or any minor illness should
also be covered.
So what do ICICI and Tata AG cover is
quickly what I am going to explain to you
in case of ICI again OPD is an
rider it covers Physical Consultation Tele
Consultation Diagnostic Pharmacy Dental
Vision Minor Procedures Mental Health
Counselling Everything There is a waiting period of 30 days.
You cannot make a claim in the first 30 days.
It has sum insured option.   If
you are taking add-on then you are getting sum insured
options of Rs 5, 10, 15, 20, 25,000.
You can choose from all these sum insured yourself.  It
is cashless only.
Through the app you have to book consultation or whatever
these services are and then you can choose.
In case of Tata AIG again it is
inbuilt.  As I told in the beginning,
all the things are mostly inbuilt
in Tata AIG.  Covers consultations, medicines,
tests and dental treatments.  There is a
waiting period of 24 months here.  If it
is inbuilt then the waiting period is a little longer.  Ah,
your cover limit for all the things like
consultation, pharmacy,
diagnostic tests, dental treatment
depends upon basically your sum
insured.  If you have taken a sum insured of Rs 10 lakh, then
you basically
get a limit of Rs 5,000 for consultation and pharmacy.
You get a limit of Rs 25,000 for diagnostic tests.
And for dental treatment
you get a limit of Rs 10,000.  Which is
decent, it's not bad.  And it's coming
built into the plan.  So, so that's also
great.  Moving on to the core benefits.  These
core benefits are those
benefits which basically are a large
part of your hospital bill.  Meaning it
is very important to know whether this cover prevents it or
not.  Both plans
are comprehensive.  So my expectation is that this will be very
good.  But still let's quickly take a
roll call.
ICI Lum gives you single private AC
room in room rent limit.  It Does Not Give You No Limit Kind of
Room Kind of a thing.  It gives you single
private AC room.  Right?  If you want any
room then you have to pay a little more
extra.  And then any room will become
applicable.  In case of Tata IG
is inbuilt.  You only get any room.  Ok?
Pre and post hospitalization 90 days
pre, 180 days post in case of ICI
Silamba.  60 days pre and 90 days post in
case of Tata AG. In this, if you
take sum insured above Rs 50 lakh, then you get it for up to 200 days also.
Day care treatment, all the
treatments are covered in both, covered up
to the sum insured, modern treatment and organ
donor, both these things are also many
things to be covered, both are covered up to the sum
insured, now coming to the temporary
exclusions, the waiting periods in
both the plans, right initial waiting period,
this is there in all the plans, so 30 day
waiting period for sickness claim is applicable
in both when you take the policy for the first time,
PED waiting period is 36
months in case of Lamba, 24 months in case of
Tata AG, means you do not have to do any modification,
in Tata AG basically
your PD gets covered from the third year, now if
you have any disease before taking the policy, then it gets
covered.  If you want to reduce your PD waiting period in ICICI from
12 months to 24 months,
then you
basically have to pay extra premium and
then you will get it.  So there are a lot of
customizations in ICICI as we are seeing,
I had told you in the beginning itself.
Next basically customization that is available
in ped waiting period for ICICI LB
called a jump start rider.  There are six
listed illnesses for which you
can basically convert the waiting period to 30 days.  You can
convert it in 30 days, not one or two years.  Which are these?
Asthma, diabetes, hypertension, high
cholesterol, obesity.  And if you have
basically undergone angioplasty and there has been a gap of one year, then
you can basically take it.  You have to
apply to the insurance company
, if the insurance company approves
then your cover will start from 31 days.
Now moving on to this specified
treatment waiting period.  What happens is
that there is a list of illnesses which are
basically not covered in the policy in the first year and second year.
This is
not a waiting period for any existing disease.  There is a
separate waiting period
in every policy.  As listed.   There is
hernia, piles, cataract.
It doesn't cover everything in the first two years.
That no insurance is less.
This is standard.  Both plans are
applicable in ICICI Lambor and Tata IG.  There is one
more thing which is very important.  It is
important to understand that in ICIC LB there is
an additional waiting period of 90 days for
hypertension, diabetes and cardiac
conditions.  This basically means that
when you are taking the policy in the first year, you
cannot claim for hypertension, diabetes and cardiac conditions.
Even if you do not have that PD after the first 90 days, then
if you have taken the policy then you do
not have to do these things.  You do not have hypertension, diabetes and
cardiac conditions and you have taken the policy.
You cannot claim all three of these in the first 90 days.
If you had
taken the policy earlier and you had any of these three things in it, then
obviously the waiting
period of three years for pre-existing diseases should be
applicable.  You
can get it modified.  So that is
basically the waiting periods for ICICI in
case of Tata AG it's very standard 30
days 24 months for basically your specified
treatment and basically two years again for
PD waiting period.  So all the waiting
periods are same.
PD waiting period of two years instead of 3 years.  Ok?  Moving on
to customer service.  In customer service, we find out
how good is the response of the insurance company on toll
free and on Twitter.  This happens in our own
brand which is basically a
sister concern of Beshaq.  ILM
Research is the name of the company and they do
basically audits of insurance companies on
toll free numbers and Twitter.  Let's
understand how both perform
in both.  Basically, looking at it here, it becomes clear that
you are not getting much in
it because both are equally good or
equally bad.  Response in case of toll
free, as per our audit,
both are average and response time on
Twitter is slow.  So if you take both these
plans then you should
not have much expectations
related to service or calls because the service of both is
equally good and bad.  Moving on
to the most important part of the video which is
the claims experience.  It is very important to know this.
Because if you
only know the claims experience, no matter how much
customization you get, no matter how good the
plan is, no matter how pre-packaged it is.  But if the
claims performance of the insurance company is not good
then there is no benefit.  Right?  So that is what we are
going to understand.   There are a
total of one to three four ratios that are
different in terms of claims performance
and understanding claim preference is what we are
going to understand.  So the first
ratio is the speed of claim
settlement.  This basically tells you
that if an insurance company receives 100 claims,
then how many claims did the insurance company settle in the first 30 days.
So let's
understand what is the ratio between ICI and Tata AG
?  ICID is almost 100 99.94% Tata
AG Micare Privateer is 80.55 80.55 Very
poor.  This means that 20% of the claims are taking more than 30 days.
This is not a good ratio.
So there's a red flag here.  Let's
look at claim complaints.  Claim complaints are
basically how many complaints an insurance company
receives on their claims.
So 14% in case of ICICI number but 10% in case
of Tata AIG Micare Premier both are
almost same.  But Tata AG Micare
Premier Leeds Here is Better Here.  This means that
Tata AG Micare is receiving fewer claim complaints.
Tata AIG not mine because
these are the ratios of the insurance company.
Next is the incurred claims ratio.
What is Incident Claim Ratio?  This is a ratio
in which basically if an insurance
company is collecting ₹100 premium, then
how much amount is it paying out in claims.
Right?  So that basically tells
you how much profit an insurance company is making and how much loss it is
incurring.  Normally we say that it should be
between 60 to 80%.
If an insurance company is
paying claims between 60 to 80% of the premium then
it is a good fair company and it basically gives you
a good signal about the insurance
company.  So let's understand what is the
ratio ICR Incurred Claim Ratio for
ICI from long term it is 85.53% which means
that it is above 80 so its clear
understanding if I tell you in some simple language
then because of this there are chances of your premium
increasing in the long run because the
insurance company is making
a little more loss compared to the benchmark that we have in
case of Tata AIG is just bordering
to 80.65% which is decent.  So no red
flag for Tata AIG in case of ICR.  Now
moving on to claim rejection ratio.  This is
my most important parameter which I look at
to understand
how many claims the insurance company rejects.  If 100
claims come, how many are rejected?
So ICICI Almard's number is 14.11% which
is quite high.  If I compare this to other
insurance companies that we have reviewed in
the past, 5%, 2.5%, 3%,
14% is quite high.  It's not a good
ratio in my view.  If you compare that to
Tata AIG it is 15.24% so I was saying
ICICI is bad but more than that in
claim rejection in our study it is coming
to be Tata AIG so in case of both these
companies they are not doing well in terms of
this performance the claim performance is not
that good compared to any other companies that we have
most of the companies that we have rated.
So that is the claim performance.  Now We Have
to Understand Pricing.  Because you are
taking the plan.  So affordability
is a must.  There is a lot you should know.  The
plan has all the features.  Claim
performance is good.  But if there is an expense, the
premium you are going to pay is
not affordable.  So that can be a
very big problem.  So that is what we are
going to understand.  The premium in case
of ICI is limited to the standard. Mr.
Kumar who is 30 years old and has a wife
and a child lives in Mumbai.
Sum insured for Rs 10 lakh is ₹13,964.
This is basically Alkarth Premium.  Like
I told you.  There is nothing in it.
You have to add everything in it.  The modification of room rent
also has to be added.  Many
other things that have been done have to be added.
After that this premium will come basically.
Compare that to Tata Ag which I said is a
pre package plan.  So
comparing premiums actually is a bit unfair.
Because in the case of Tata AG, all the
things that I mentioned above, dental OPD and many other
things, maternity, vaternity, everything is basically
included in the premium.  So the premium
is ₹28,659.
Right?  It also includes one more rider and
unlimited restoration by way of fixed rider.
After that its premium is ₹28,659.
So if you look at the premium, it
is almost double and the reason for this is that one
is Alkarth product and the other is Thali.  So
obviously you will have to look at it that way also.
Ok?  Moving on to the most
critical part of the video which is
basically understanding the ratings of the
product.  In this you get to know
what rating both the plans are getting by comparing all the products in India.
Like when we go to a hotel, it has
a rating inside the parts.
Similarly, ILM Research does a rating for all
the plans that exist in the country.  Most
of the good plans that exist in the
country.  I research this
independently.  It is a company that does not
take and it is a brand that does not take any
kind of commissions, marketing money, anything
from any insurance company to stay
independent and give you unbiased ratings.
So it has ratings.  By this I basically
mean that I am giving you assurance that the
ratings are not paid ratings.  Right?
What are the ratings of ICICI LAD Elevat?   The
ICI Lbar in the product is 4.69 out of
five.  Tata Ag is 3.92 out of five.  So
basically ICICI leads in the product
benefit side even after you add all the
riders it will basically obviously get higher
rating only after adding the riders so you are
getting higher rating Elevate compared
to Tata AIG next is customer service
customer service is 4.14 in case of ICIC
Almard Elevate Tata AIG rates at 4.47 out
of five.  Third is claims experience.
We had fully understood the claims experience just
some time ago.  What is its rating?
ICICI Bank Almari rates at 4.27
out of five in the rating.  3.79 in Case of Tata AG
Medical Remed.  So basically in this also ICICI is
comparing to Tata AG overall
rating which is 4.32 for ICICI and the rating of Tata
AG plan Medi Previor is
3.93 so basically if you compare both these plans
on a rating basis which is a
standard rating done by ILM Research
for someone who is basically a standard person
like Mr. Kumar who is buying a 10 lakh
sum insured plan it comes to 4.32 versus
3.93 ICICI Log Babbard Wins but it is very
important to understand that it is a
standard rating.  It Is Not For You That
This Rating Has Been Done.  It is that not a
customized product understanding that you are getting.
What you need to do when you actually need
to buy a plan is to find
out which plan actually relates to you which
is more kind of matching to your
needs right for that what you need to do is sit down
and rank down
all your needs,
your preferences and then try to find out
an expert in your area
location your circle who can actually help
you with not only choosing the right plan
helping you buy it right and also help but also help
you with the claims process
in the long run right because there
is no accountability of claims someone will sell you a plan
and then go away and will not help you at the time of claims
so there are
very high chances of selling the plan wrongly.
If you are not able to find such a person in your circle.
If for any reason
you are not able to find such a person in your family circle.
You
can always come to this because we house one of the
best insurance experts in the country.
Close to around 200 experts are paneled
on our platform.  These are self-employed
experts, not call center people, who
actually help you not only choose the right
plan but also help you at the time
of the clips.  If you need any type of
service, it is completely free.  Your
number is in our description, the pin is
in the comments, there will be a chat number.  If you
click on the chat, it will go to our support team
and they will then basically
help you.  Okay hope this video was
useful and you found answers to the
comparison that you are looking for, to understand
which product you should look at, what are the
important parameters,
hope it was useful.  If you have any
questions about any of these two plans and
any questions about the comparison that we did
and you were finding something missing, you
can come in the comments and basically
ask questions, our team will give
you an immediate response as fast as possible.  And
if you found the video helpful and want to
watch such videos on how
we compare and you want to stay basically updated in the
world of insurance, that
basically what are the things that are happening, how things are
changing, what are
your rights as a customer, please follow us
on, of course it will help you stay updated with
insurance, thank you very much